# Relative inverses

This repository contains Lean 3 files with formal proofs of the following main topics, although some proofs are missing:
1. Relative inverses of commutative semigroups, 
2. Bolean algebras from the idempotent elements in commutative rings,
3. Every Commutative unital algebra over a field has either a finite set of atoms whoos supremum is the top or a strictly increasing sequence.
4. Ideals generated by a co-atom are maximal.
5. Ideals that are generated by an atom are isomorphic to fields.
6. A finite dimensional commutative unital algebra over a field has a finite set of atoms whos supremum is the top element. 
7. This implies that a finite dimensional commutative unital algebra over a field is isomorphic to the unique direct product of ideals generated by the atoms.
8. All elements in an algebraic separable commutative unital algebra over a field have relative inverses.

The formal proofs can be checked for correctness by the lean 3 proof assistant.

## Installation
The following three program components must be installed in the following order:
1. Visual Studio Code
2. Lean 3
3. The Lean programs in the present git repository

### Visual Studio code
This code editor is required for editing and compiling Lean proof files. A detailed description including the installation instructions is found in:
https://code.visualstudio.com/

### Lean 3
The installation of the Lean 3 theorem prover is described in:
https://leanprover-community.github.io/lean3/get_started.html
This will also install the required Lean 3 extension for VS Code.

### Relative_inverses
The following command:

leanproject get "https://github.com/fhermansen/Relative_inverses"

creates the directory "Relative_inverses", which will contain the cloned git Relative_inverses repository (".git").
The file "leanpkg.toml" in the repository directs leanproject to install the correct version of the Lean 3 Mathlib (_target).

## Checking the formal proofs for correctness
Open VS Code. Then open the Relative_inverses folder. Finally, open the Lean files in the src subfolder.
VS Code will automatically compile the opened Lean files. The proofs in the Lean files are correct, if they compile without any error messages.

